chore(docs) alter system lock/unlock table (#1020)
questdb/questdb.io: docs/reference/sql/alter-system.md

---
title: ALTER SYSTEM
sidebar_label: ALTER SYSTEM
description: ALTER SYSTEM keyword reference documentation.
---

> Lock and unlock tables. Locked tables are still available for reading, but inaccessible for writing until

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Locks and unlocks tables. Locked tables are still available for reading, but inaccessible for writing until
```

> unlocked. A locked table won't accept new data and its schema cannot be changed either. 

Reviewer: Isn't this implied already by saying that the table is inaccessible for writing?

Author: yes, you are right. it's redundant.

> This is useful during e.g. maintenance procedures when you want to prevent a table being manipulated in anyway.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This operation is intended to be used during maintenance procedures, to prevent a table from being manipulated in any way. 

```

## Syntax

![Flow chart showing the syntax of the ALTER TABLE keyword](/img/docs/diagrams/alterSystem.svg)

## Examples

Lock table `ratings` for writing. 

```questdb-sql title="Lock table"

> ALTER SYSTEM LOCK WRITER ratings ;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ALTER SYSTEM LOCK WRITER ratings;
```

```

Unlock table `ratings`.

```questdb-sql title="Lock table"

> ALTER SYSTEM UNLOCK WRITER ratings ;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ALTER SYSTEM UNLOCK WRITER ratings;
```

```

> Locking and unlocking a table is considered to a be a write operation. It means users with a read-only access cannot
> perform lock/unlock. A table must exist before it's locked. 

Reviewer: This is a piece of important information that I'd move to the start, around line 10.
```suggestion
A table must exist before it is locked. 
Locking and unlocking a table is considered to be a write operation. Users with a read-only access cannot perform `ALTER SYSTEM (UN)LOCK WRITER`. 
```
